once upon a time there reigned in pantouflia a king and a queen.
with almost everything else to make them happy, they wanted one thing: they had no children.
the king was anxious to consult the fairies, but the queen would not hear of such a thing.
it was a splendid room, hung with portraits of the royal ancestors.
on the arm of the throne was seated his celebrated cat, wearing boots.
many other pictures of celebrated persons were hanging on the walls.
""you have asked all the right people, my dear?"
""everyone who should be asked," answered the queen.
""people are so touchy on these occasions," said his majesty.
""you have not forgotten any of our aunts?"
replied the queen; for the king's aunts were old-fashioned, and did not approve of her, and she knew it.
then he waited a little, and remarked: "the fairies, of course, you have invited?
""how can you be so absurd?"
""how often must i tell you that there are no fairies?
and even if there were -- but, no matter; pray let us drop the subject."
""they are very old friends of our family, my dear, that's all," said the king timidly.
""often and often they have been godmothers to us.
one, in particular, was most kind and most serviceable to cinderella i., my own grandmother."
and so the fairies were not invited!
flitter, flitter, flutter, went the noise; and when the queen looked up, lo and behold!
on every seat was a lovely fairy, dressed in green, each with a most interesting-looking parcel in her hand.
do n't you like opening parcels?
the king did, and he was most friendly and polite to the fairies.
but the queen, though she saw them distinctly, took no notice of them.
you see, she did not believe in fairies, nor in her own eyes, when she saw them.
-lcb- chapter heading picture: p9.jpg -rcb- prince prigio and his family.
well, the little prince grew up.
i think i've told you that his name was prigio -- did i not?
well, that was his name.
you can not think how clever he was.
he argued with his nurse as soon as he could speak, which was very soon.
he argued that he did not like to be washed, because the soap got into his eyes.
then he remembered the awful curse of the oldest fairy, and was sorry for the rudeness of the queen.
-lcb- prigio reading a book: p11.jpg -rcb- indeed, i can not tell you how the prince was hated by all!
he would go down into the kitchen, and show the cook how to make soup.
and "have you read that?"
-- and when they said they had n't, he sneered; and when they said they had, he found them out.
he also endeavoured to teach the queen-dowager, his grandmother, an art with which she had long been perfectly familiar!
and, what was more, he had!
as time went on, prince prigio had two younger brothers, whom everybody liked.
they were not a bit clever, but jolly.
prince alphonso, the third son, was round, fat, good-humoured, and as brave as a lion.
prince enrico, the second, was tall, thin, and a little sad, but never too clever.
but prigio nearly got the country into several wars by being too clever for the foreign ambassadors.
of all the people who did not like prigio, his own dear papa, king grognio, disliked him most.
for the king knew he was not clever, himself.
he much preferred to idle about, and know everything without seeming to take any trouble.
-lcb- the king at his desk: p15.jpg -rcb- well, the king thought and thought.
how was he to get prigio out of the way, and make enrico or alphonso his successor?
and he wished he had the chance.
